---
layout: post
title: Undergraduate Thesis
date: 2013-06-01
---
# Abstract
<br>
Rap2 is a member of the large family of Ras GTPases. Unlike many of the other Ras GTPases,
however, the function of Rap2 remains poorly characterized. In previous studies, Rap2 has been
shown to be linked to actin cytoskeleton remodeling. In addition, contradictory results for the
role of Rap2 in promoting migration suggest a more complicated role for Rap2 in this process.
Focal adhesions (FAs), protein complexes that connect the extracellular matrix (ECM) to the
cytoskeleton, are critically involved in cell motility, but the role of Rap2 in focal adhesion
dynamics has not been examined. In this study, we generated Rap2 mutant-expressing
keratinocytes using a lentiviral infection system and examined the effect on cell motility and
cytoskeletal dynamics. Random motility assays demonstrated that dominant negative Rap2
infected keratinocytes (Rap2N17) exhibited greater cell motility than did constitutively active
Rap2 mutant infected keratinocytes (Rap2V12). In addition, immunostaining revealed aberrant
changes in size and intensity of FA staining in cells expressing Rap2V12 as compared to
Rap2N17. Building off of this, examination of zyxin dynamics demonstrated a statistically
significant increase in focal adhesion assembly and disassembly rates in Rap2N17 as compared
to Rap2V12 keratinocytes. Furthermore, analysis of EB3 migration suggests that Rap2N17, but
not Rap2V12, promotes increased microtubule growth speed. This data suggests that downregulation
of Rap2 may enhance motility by promoting focal adhesion turnover in keratinocytes,
potentially through changes in microtubule regulation. Furthermore, a chemotaxis assay
confirmed that Rap2N17 promotes keratinocyte invasion into a matrigel under gradient serum
induction, perhaps linking Rap2 to metastasis. In summary, our study highlights the importance
of Rap2 on cell motility and its potential role in cell invasion.
<br><br>
# Link to Full Text
<br>
<a class="page-link" href= "{{ site.url }}/Thesis - Final PDF.pdf">
Rap2 Down-Regulation Promotes Cell Motility Through Focal
Adhesion Turnover</a>  
